---
layout: post
title: "Omega2 Bluetooth"
date: 2017-02-15 12:00:00
published: true
categories: posts
tags:  onion omega2 iot ble bluetooth
---

# Get Bluetooth Expansion Running on the Omega2

Bluetooth was the expansion I chose with the Omega2 kickstarter. Below are the first steps I took to try out the device. I was able to pair it with an Android phone and a MacBook. Next I want to try out some beacons for a basic home IoT experiment.

Assuming you've started your Omega2 and connected to the terminal:

## Update

`$ opkg update`

## Install Bluetooth libs/utils

Find the packages

`$ opkg list | grep blue`

Install

`$ opkg install bluez-libs bluez-utils` 

## Remote Bluetooth Device Setup

Ensure your BLE USB device is connected properly

`$ hciconfig -a `

then turn on the USB device:

`$ hciconfig hci0 up`

`$ hciconfig hci0 sspmode enable`

`$ hciconfig hci0 piscan`

You should see blinking a blue light from the USB device.

## Bluetooth Control

To connect a device use **bluetoothctl**

Enter the command:

`$ bluetoothctl`

This is the **bluetoothctl** menu. Make the USB device discoverable/pairable and allow it to discover other devices.

Attempting to tab-autocomplete will give all the available commands. 

`$ show`

`$ agent on`

`$ discoverable on`

`$ pairable on`

`$ scan on`

Ensure you have another device to pair with and enabled, it will appear in the list after the scan. Copy the ID and use to pair.

`pair XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX`

Prompt for a PIN, enter a value, e.g. `0000` and enter that on the remote device when prompted. Enable trust with the same device ID:

`trust XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX`

## Links

There is a dated example project using [Audio streaming over Bluetooth at the Onion Wiki](https://wiki.onion.io/Tutorials/Bluetooth-Streaming-Audio)